NEXT-30474 - Documentation for generic DAL events: EntityDeleteEvent … (#1119)
shopware/docs: guides/plugins/plugins/framework/data-handling/using-database-events.md

Furthermore you should have a look at our [Listening to events](../../plugin-fundamentals/listening-to-events.md) guide since we are subscribing to events in this guide.

## General event overview

The events below are dispatched during certain DAL operations, they are not necessarily associated with a particular entity, rather they are triggered with batches of commands.

| Event                                                                   | Description                                                                                        |
|:------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Shopware\Core\Framework\DataAbstractionLayer\Event\EntityWriteEvent`   | Before a batch of commands has been written to storage. Written means inserted, updated or deleted |
| `Shopware\Core\Framework\DataAbstractionLayer\Event\EntityDeleteEvent`  | Before a batch of delete commands has been executed                                                |

### `Shopware\Core\Framework\DataAbstractionLayer\Event\EntityWriteEvent`

> This event allows you to hook in to the process of writing an entity. This includes, creating, updating and deleting entities. You have the possibility to execute code before and after the entity is written via the success and error callbacks. You can call the `addSuccess` or `addError` methods with any PHP callable.
> 
> You can use this event to capture state and perform actions and sync data after an entity is written. It could be used for example, to synchronize images to a CDN when they are written, updated or deleted. This event is useful when you need the before state of the entity. For example, the old filename.
> 
> Below is an example subscriber listening to the generic entity write event, and logging the ID's of the written entities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This event allows you to hook into the process of writing an entity. This includes creating, updating, and deleting entities. You have the possibility to execute the code before and after the entity is written via the "success" and "error" callbacks. You can call the `addSuccess` or `addError` methods with any PHP callable.

You can use this event to capture state, perform actions, and sync data after an entity is written. It could be used, for example, to synchronize images to a CDN when they are written, updated, or deleted. This event is useful when you need the before state of the entity. For example, the old filename.

Below is an example subscriber listening to the generic entity write event and logging the ID's of the written entities.
```

        $ids = $event->getIds(CmsPageDefinition::ENTITY_NAME);
        
        //get ids of all entities to be written, regardless of type
        $ids = $event->getIds();
        
        //you can also fetch the payloads (DeleteCommand's do not have payloads)
        $payloads = array_map(fn (WriteCommand $command) => $command->getPayload(), $event->getCommands());
        
        //or for a specific entity type
        $payloads = array_map(fn (WriteCommand $command) => $command->getPayload(), $event->getCommandsForEntity(CmsPageDefinition::ENTITY_NAME));
                
        
        $event->addSuccess(function () use ($ids) {
            //the entities have now been successfully written
            
            $this->logger->info(sprintf('Entities with ids: "%s" were written', implode(', ', $ids)));
        });
        
        $event->addError(function () use ($ids) {
            //the entities failed to write, you can write a log, send an e-mail, or anything else.
            $this->logger->critical(sprintf('Entities with ids: "%s" were not written', implode(', ', $ids)));
        });
    }
}
```

{% endcode %}

> After creating the event subscriber, you have to register it. If you don't know how that's done, head over to our guide about [Listening to events](../../plugin-fundamentals/listening-to-events.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating the event subscriber, you have to register it. If you don't know how it is done, then refer to the [Listening to events](../../plugin-fundamentals/listening-to-events.md) guide.
```

### `Shopware\Core\Framework\DataAbstractionLayer\Event\EntityDeleteEvent`

> This event allows you to hook in to the process of removing an entity. You have the possibility to execute code before and after the entity is removed via the success and error callbacks. You can call the `addSuccess` or `addError` methods with a Closure.
> 
> You can use this event to capture state and perform actions after an entity is removed. For example, you could collect the entity name before it is deleted, then after it is deleted, use the name to remove the respective data from a third party system via an API call.
> 
> Below is an example subscriber listening to the generic entity delete event, filtering for CMS page deletions, and then performing a different action based on whether the delete was successful or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This event allows you to hook into the process of removing an entity. You have the possibility to execute the code before and after the entity is removed via the "success" and "error" callbacks. You can call the `addSuccess` or `addError` methods with a closure.

You can use this event to capture state and perform actions after an entity is removed. For example, you could collect the entity name before it is deleted, then after it is deleted, use the name to remove the respective data from a third-party system via an API call.

Below is an example subscriber listening to the generic entity delete event, filtering for CMS page deletions, and then performing a different action based on whether the delete was successful or not.
```
